# Installing Ionic on Mac

This document will provide detailed steps on how to install Ionic on OS X and how to get a basic Hello World application up and running on both emulators and devices for Android and iOS.

Whenever you see a "Check", "Run", or terminal operation, that means to run the command that follows in a terminal window.  The right arrow (->) that proceeds is the resulting output you should get after running the command.

I put this guide together by following the following guides:
- Cordova Install Guide ([link](https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/latest/guide/cli/index.html))
- Ionic Install Guide ([link](http://ionicframework.com/docs/guide/installation.html))
- I also found answers by Googling errors that I got, but I cannot remember which ones I used to fix the issues

**Known Issues:**
- Using a package manager such as Homebrew
	- I have attempted to use Homebrew and there were issues with the paths Homebrew installed these packages to  
- Using Node.js version 5
	- When I was installing node I figured the latest version would be the best version, but there are some known issues with using node 5 instead of node 4

## Install Ionic
1. Install Node.js
	- Install: [link](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
	- Check: `node --version`
	- Check: `npm --nersion`
2. Install git
	- Install: [link](http://git-scm.com/downloads)
	- Check: `git --version`
3. Install Command Line Tools for OS X
	- Check: `gcc --version`
	- Check: `xcode-select -p`
	- **Note:** If you already have Xcode installed the Command Line Tools should also be installed.  If not, when you run `git --version` from the previous step you should get a pop-up saying that you need to install the "Command Line Tools".  If that pop-up appears, click on the Download button.
4. Install Cordova
	- Run `sudo npm install -g cordova`
	- Check: `cordova --version`
5. Install Ionic
	- Run `sudo npm install -g ionic`
	- Check: `ionic --version`
5. Create Hello World Application
	- `cd` into a directory you want to create the application.  For instance I use `~/Programming/Ionic/`
	- A message will pop up asking if you would like to create an ionic.io account.  I would recommend creating an account if you plan on doing alot of Ionic development.
		- `y` -> Will direct you to the ionic.io website while the application continues to be built
		- `n` -> Will continue to create the application
	- Run `ionic start HelloWorld blank`
		- Check: `cd HelloWorld`

## Run Ionic Application on iOS and Android Emulators
1. iOS
	- **Note:** Ionic adds the ios platform by default so you shouldn't have to add it
	- Install Xcode from the App Store ([link](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/xcode/id497799835?mt=12))
		- This download is large so it will take some time
	- Run `sudo npm install -g ios-sim`.  This *should* be a one time thing.  I've done a few Hello World type apps and only had to run that command on the very first app.
	- `cd` into the directory your Hello World application from the previous steps was created
	- **Note:** The following commands must be run inside the application directory.
	- Run `ionic build`
	- Run `ionic emulate ios`
2. Android
	- Install Apple's Java Support
		- Install: [link](https://support.apple.com/kb/DL1572?viewlocale=en_US&locale=en_US)
	- Install JDK
		- Install: [link](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html)
			- **Note:** You need to download at least version 1.7, however I would recommend installing version 1.8
		- Check: `java -version`
	- Install Android Studio
		- Install: [link](http://developer.android.com/index.html)
			- The link also has a guide you can follow to properly install Android Studio
		- Create a new application ([guide](http://developer.android.com/training/basics/firstapp/creating-project.html))
		- Install Tools:
			- Tools -> Android -> SDK Manager
				- Select All
				- Click Apply
		- Install Emulator:
			- Tools -> Android -> AVD Manager -> Nexus 4
			- **Note:** You will need to select at least API level 16.  If you don't see an API level of 16 or more you need to click on the "Show downloadable system images" checkbox in the bottom left and download an API level of 16 or higher.
			- **Note:** If you create an emulator with a lower API you will get an error when you try to emulate the project
	- `cd` into the directory your Hello World application from the previous steps was created
	- Run `ionic platform add android`
	- Run `ionic build`
	- Run `ionic emulate android`
		- If you only created one emulator within Android Studio it will default to that one.  If there are multiple it will default to the latest one you created.
		- I have yet to figure out how to specify the emulator you wish to run on.  There is an optional `--target` tag you can add, but you have to specify the emulator name and I have yet to find where to get the name.

## Run Ionic Application on iOS and Android Devices
1. iOS
	- **Note:** You need to have the Apple Developer subscrption which is $99 a year
	- Connect iOS device to computer via USB cable
	- `cd` into the directory your Hello World application from the previous steps was created
	- Run `ionic build`
	- Run `ionic run --device`
2. Android
	- Test if `adb` is properly installed by running `adb`
		- If `adb` command is not found you need to create a PATH variable to Android’s platform-tools directory. 
			- **NOTE**: The location of the platform-tools directory can vary between machines.  If you downloaded Android Studio it will be in `/Users/username/Library/Android/sdk/platform-tools/`
			- run `cd ~` to get to your root directory
			- run `nano ./bash_profile`
			- add `export PATH=$PATH:/Users/username/Library/Android/sdk/platform-tools/` or whatever the path is to your adb
			- type `control-o` followed by `enter` to save the document
			- type `control-x` to exit back to the terminal
	- Connect your Android device to your computer using a USB port
	- run `adb devices` to ensure your device is connected and authorized
		- If the list returned by `adb devices` is empty there is a good chance your phone is not in developer mode
			- On your phone go to *Settings -> More -> About Device*
			- Tap *Build Number* several times until it tells you that the device is in developer mode
			- Go to *Settings -> More -> Developer Options* and check *USB Debugging*
		- If the previous option has been performed correctly and has failed (still returns an empty list)
			- Disconnect device
			- run `adb kill-server`
			- run `adb start-server`
			- Reconnect device
			- Wait a few seconds and run `adb devices` again
		- If the device is recognized but says *Unauthorized*
			- Ensure your device is powered on
			- Disconnect the device and reconnect it.  A pop-up should appear on the phone asking you to authorize the computer.
	- run `ionic build`
	- run `ionic run --device`
